                                                            Application required only for applicants
                                                                 (not accepted at any schools)
Important   To Any Guardians


       Notice of Support for Going to Any Municipal School for FY2026
                                                                               Board of Education of Kita City

This system aims to support the part of required expenses for school learning according to
economic situations of each household. In case of falling under the “１. Eligibility for getting
the support” and desiring to be evaluated for the support, apply for it as follows “2.
Procedure for receiving the support” (1) on the page 2.
For any persons getting the approval of the support for FY2025, the evaluation will be
automatically conducted because the application is deemed to have been filed.
However, for any persons getting the non-approved or cancelation of approval in the middle
of FY2025, if desired in this fiscal year, re-application will be required.
                           Original Deadline of Application: April 30 (Thu.), 2026
 *In/After the foregoing deadline, the support will be available in/after the application month.

                               １. Eligibility for getting the support
Any guardians of students (registered as residents in Kita City) of national/public elementary/junior
high schools / mandatory educational schools / secondary schools (first semester course) / special
support schools (elementary/junior high school course) who fall under any of the following items:
（１）Receiving public assistance at present;
（２）Receiving child support assistance on the approved date (not the child allowance/benefits);
（３）Total amount of income of all members in the same household is less than the standard
       amount as follows;
（４）Having any special reason permitted by the Board of Education.
*Including any persons living in Kita City who are not registered as residents in Kita City due to
inevitable reasons like domestic violence.
 *For any persons having a marital relationship with guardians, even while separated, it will be
 evaluated as family members in the same household (except in case of being confirmed by official
 documents, etc. that the divorce is currently in mediation or being eligible for support measures for
 domestic violence victims).
   *For any special support school students, the encouragement system by Tokyo for children's
      attendance at school will be given priority. It will be required to apply for it through each
      attendance school. In addition, any other support systems for Tokyo Metropolitan schools will
      be given priority.
  *Excluding any private schools.
   *Excluding any students entering any facility (receiving the placement expenses) / receiving the
      foster-parent system, etc.
【 Approved Standard Amount (Estimated) 】 *The table is just a standard. According to the
structure of each household and age of each family member, etc., the standard amount will differ.
Regardless of income, application will be available. Therefore, in case of being unknown if it applies,
we recommend applying for it.
                                                                      Annual amount
                                                                                          Total income for all
                                                                      of income for all
                                                                                             households
                         Structure of household                         households
                                                                                           (Jan. 1-Dec. 31,
                                                                          (for salary
                                                                                                 2025)
                                                                           income)
      2         Parent (33 years old / Child (1st-grade elementary    Approximately        Approximately

 members        school student)                                      4.58 million yen     3.13 million yen

      3         Parents (37 and 32 years old) / Child (1st-grade      Approximately        Approximately

 members        elementary school student)                           5.01 million yen     3.47 million yen


                                                  1
                    Parents (40 and 34 years old) / Children (1st-grade
           4                                                                 Approximately       Approximately
                    junior high school student and 3rd-grade elementary
   members                                                                  5.97 million yen    4.24 million yen
                    school student)
                    Parents (50 and 45 years old) Children (2nd-grade
           5                                                                 Approximately       Approximately
                    high school student, 3rd-grade junior high school
   members                                                                  6.47 million yen    4.64 million yen
                    student and 4th-grade elementary school student)
                    Parents (42 and 35 years old) / Children (1st-grade
           6                                                                 Approximately       Approximately
                    junior high school student and 3rd-grade elementary
   members                                                                  6.92 million yen    5.03 million yen
                    school student) / Grandparents (70 and 65 years old)

 *The “total income for all households” means:
(1) the amount deducted 100,000 yen from “the
amount     after   salary    income   deduction”   on   your                      The amount deducted
                                                                                  100,000 yen from “the
withholding slip (in case of a household only with salary                         amount after salary income
income).
(2) the amount deducted necessary expenses from the
annual amount of income (in case of a household with
business income).



                            ２. Application procedure for getting the support


                                                                           Please confirm the following.
 【Any persons required to apply for it】
   □ Those who have not yet applied for the support in Kita City within FY2025.
    □ Those who have received the “non-approved” for FY2025 or the “cancelation
      of approval” in the middle of the fiscal year.
    □ The children recently moved into Kita City (even in case of have received the
      support outside Kita City, application will be required).
    □ Any guardians of incoming 1st-grade elementary school students have not yet
      received the expenses for purchasing school supplies (provision before
      enrollment) from Kita City in March.
    □ Any of brothers/sisters have not yet received the support.
      → In case of falling under any of the foregoing conditions, application will be required
      as follows “(1).”
 【Any persons not required to apply for it】
  □ Those who have already received the approval of the support in Kita City within
           FY2025.
    □ Any guardians of incoming 1st-grade elementary school students have already
       received the expenses for purchasing school supplies (provision before
     enrollment) in March.
     →In case of falling under any of the foregoing conditions, refer to the flowchart
 on the page 3. In principle, application will not be required. The evaluation will be
 automatically conducted.
     *However, in case of desiring change of the bank account for transfer or change
 of the applicant, the procedure will be required.


                                                               2
                                                                 Electronic application
                                                                    recommended.
（１）How to apply for it
 It will be accepted through electronic application (LoGo Form) or by post / at the counter.
 You will be permitted to follow the procedure by scanning the QR codes as right or
  accessing the website of Kita City “Support for going to school.” In case of difficulty in
  scanning the QR codes, directly enter the following URL (the website of Kita City).
       URL：https://www.city.kita.lg.jp/children-edu/schools/1003980/1003981.html
 For more details about application method by post, confirm the “Support for going to
  school” on the website of Kita City.
 In case of difficulty in applying for it through electric application / by post, bring your
  identity verification document and bank book or cash card and visit the counter of
  Educational Affairs Subsection, School Support Section. It will not be accepted at any
  school.




   【Deadline of Application】April 30 (Thu.), 2026
     *In case of failure to submit it by the deadline, it may not be approved in/after April.
     *After the foregoing deadline, application will be permitted at any time in the middle of the fiscal
 year.In that case, the support will be available in/after the application month.




（２）Confirmation of income according to application
 ① Those who have resident registration in Kita City as of January 1, 2026
  The submission of documents for confirming income will not be required. Fill an income tax
  return for FY2025 (January 1, 2025 – December 31, 2025) (for all of family members in
  the same household excluding a spouse eligible for deduction / dependent relatives). Even
  if you have not any income, you will be required to file a tax return. Therefore, declare the
  details about non-income at Taxation Division, Kita City Office.

  ② Those who have resident registration outside Kita City as of January 1, 2026
   Submit the “Certificate of Resident Taxation (or Tax Exemption) for FY2026” (after early
   June 2026, issued by Taxation Division of any municipality office where you have lived as
   of January 1, 2026). For any applicable person, the notice will be sent at a later date.

  Use of Individual Number (“My Number”)
    If you are required to submit the certificate and you desire use of the Individual Number
    System, the submission can be omitted by separately submitting the “Application Form
    for Use of Individual Number (“My Number”).” The “Consent Form for Use of
    Individual Number (My Number)” can be downloaded on the website of Kita City
    regarding the “Support for going to school” (it can be available by post).




                                                  3
                                           Flowchart




                                                                                    Regarding
                                                                                    the Q&A,
                                                                                     refer to
                                                                                    the page
                                                                                        4,




                            ３. Result of evaluation and supply

（１）The result will be sent by post in late June to each householder at the resident’s registration
  address of each child. In addition, the result will be sent to your school.


                                                4
 （２）The support expenses will be transferred to the designated bank account of applicants on the
   date of payment (5 times in total per year for those who are enrolled at any municipal schools in Kita
   City / 1 time in March for those who are enrolled at any schools outside Kita City). However, in case
   you have not paid any expenses for the school, the support expenses may be transferred directly to
   the account of the principal.
  *Even if the application is not approved due to exceeding the standard amount of income, in case of
   change of household situation and the amount of income for the previous year, re-application will
   be permitted (ex. due to divorce / income adjustment). However, the support expenses will be
   provided as of the re-applied month.

                                       ４. Details of provision for the support
 You can check the details of provision by accessing the website of Kita City “Support for
 going to school” (regarding the “Details of provision”). For more details, confirm the “Report
 on Amount of Provision” sent to the approved persons.

                                                               ５. Others
 In case of desiring application based on any income other than the income for the previous
 year due to special reasons including sudden change, etc. of life situations for the primary
 income provider (ex. recovering from illness / unemployment due to any reasons by a company
 / bankruptcy / suffering from disaster), contact the Board of Education.


                                      Inquiry
                            School Affairs Subsection, School Support Section, Educational Division,
                            Bureau for Board of Education of Kita City
                            (Kita City Office Takinogawa Branch Office 1F No. 5 Counter)
                            2-52-10 Takinogawa, Kita City, Tokyo (〒114-8546)
                            ☎03-3908-1541
                            Monday – Friday (excluding National Holidays) at 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.




【Q＆A】
                                       Result of
    No                                 Approval
                 Question                                                                     Answer
     .                                   for
                                       FY2026
      I do not know if application
      for the support for previous
                                                   We cannot provide the answer regarding the status of approval. If you have any
    1 fiscal year (FY2025) has
                                                   questions, you will be required to apply for it through the “New Application Form.”
      been done. / I do not know
      the result of approval.
A
p                                                  In case of receiving approval for previous fiscal year or application at the beginning
p     Regarding the household                      fiscal year (in April), in principle, it will be evaluated based on the household situation as
l   2 situation, when will the                     of the following day after the date of entering a junior high school (on April 9, 2026).
i     evaluation be conducted?                     In case of application in the middle of the fiscal year, it will be evaluated based on the
c                                                  household situation as of the date of application.
a
t                                        (For   For incoming 1st-grade elementary school students who have not yet received the
      The application for an older
i   3                                  FY2025) expenses for purchasing school supplies (provision before enrollment), re-application
      brother/sister for previous
o                                      Approved will be required. Add the eligible child through the “Application Form f or C hange.”
      fiscal year (FY2025) has
n
      been done. Will the
      application for a younger          (For
      brother/sister (entering         FY2025) In case of application desired, apply for it again for both brothers/sisters through the
    4
      school in April) be required?      Not    “New Application Form.”
                                       approved


                                                                      5
         After moving within Kita City
         by all of the household
                                                     Re-application will not be require. In case of moving within Kita City, the result of
       5 members, change of a             Approved
                                                     approval will be informed from the Board of Education to each transfer school.
         school by a child has been
         decided.
                                                Re-application will not be required.
                                                Re-evaluation will be conducted by referring to a resident record / shift information on
                                                school register every month.
       6 Any of the household          Approved
                                                In case of total amount of income for all of household members exceeding the standard
         members in a resident record           amount of approval due to moving-out by any of household members, etc., the approval may
         decreased.                             be canceled.
         Ex. Only a brother (a working
                                                Re-application will be permitted by excluding any of household members.
         adult) moving-out outside
                                                In case of desiring to apply for it again, re-application will be permitted through the
         Kita City.                      Not
       7                                        “New Application Form.”
                                       approved
                                                     The standard amount of approval will be decreased due to being reduced by one
                                                     household member.
                                                   In case of childbirth or moving-in by any household member aged less than 16 years (2nd-
  C        Any of the household                    grade high school student) as of the end of December last year, re-application will not be
  h        members in a resident record            required.
  a        increased.                              In case of moving-in by any household member aged 16 years (2nd-grade high school
  n                                                student) or older as of the end of December last year, re-application will be required. Follow
  g    8 ・A child was born.               Approved the procedure for adding the household member through the “Application Form for
  e                                                Change.”
         ・Any of household                         In case of moving-in outside Kita City, it will be required for income evaluation regarding re-
  o      members moving-in Kita City               application to submit the Taxation (Tax Exemption) Certificate issued by any municipality
  f      from any area outside Kita                where the resident registration has been done as of January 1, 2026. Upload the image of
         City or within Kita City.                 the Certificate through the “Application Form for Change.”
  h      Ex. Grandparents moving-in                In case of being increased by one household member, the standard amount of approval will
  o      Kita City from any other                  be increased. Therefore, the result may be changed from non-approved into approval by
  u                                         Not
       9 prefecture.                               applying for it again.
  s                                       approved
                                                   In case of re-application desired, apply for it again through the “New Application Form.”
  e                                                However, the support expenses will be paid in/after the month of re-application.
  h
  o                                                In principle, re-application will be required due to evaluation for a guardian included in the
  l                                                household.
  d                                                Follow the procedure for adding the household member through the “Application Form
                                                   for Change.”
      10                                  Approved
  s                                                In case of a new family member moving-in outside Kita City, it will be required for income
  i                                                evaluation regarding re-application to submit the Taxation (Tax Exemption) Certificate issued
  t        A guardian got married.                 by any municipality where the resident registration has been done as of January 1, 2026).
  u                                                Upload the image of the Certificate through the “Application Form for Change.”
  a
                                                   In case of being increased by one household member, the standard amount of approval will
  t
                                                   be increased. Therefore, the result may be changed from non-approved into approval by
  i                                         Not
      11                                           applying for it again.
  o                                       approved
                                                   In case of re-application desired, apply for it again through the “New Application Form.”
  n
                                                   However, the support expenses will be paid in/after the month of re-application.

                                                   In case of change of an applicant (a recipient of the support expenses), re-application will be
                                                   required.
                                                   Apply for it again in the changed name as an applicant through the “New Application
                                                   Form.”
      12                                  Approved In case of non-change of an applicant (a recipient of the support expenses), re-application
                                                   will not be required. In case of any application procedures required (ex. the surname of an
                                                   applicant changed in a resident record), Kita City will inform you.
                                                   *In case of a resident record at the same household after divorce, the evaluation will be
           A guardian got divorced.
                                                   conducted for the household member included in the household.

                                                   In case of separation from the resident record due to completion of divorce, re-evaluation will
                                                   be permitted by excluding the person from the household.
                                            Not    In case of desiring to apply for it again, re-application will be permitted through the “New
      13
                                          approved Application Form.”
                                                   The standard amount of approval will be decreased due to being reduced by one household
                                                   member.

    C    Desiring to change only the
A   h    bank account for transfer
                                                     Follow the procedure for changing the account information through the “Application
c   a 14 (an applicant (a recipient of
  B                                                  Form for Change.”
c
  a
    n    the support expenses) not
o   g    changed).
  n
u   e
  k
n        Desiring to change an                       Re-application will be required.
t   o 15 applicant (a recipient of the               Apply for it again in the changed name as an applicant through the “New Application
    f
           support expenses).                        Form.”




                                                                         6
